## Situation:
I was in a managerial role that required oversight over a wide range of aspects. Data was scarce, 
fragmented, dirty and any data that was being collected was essentially sitting dark. We had a number of 
incomplete and coarse services which acted as the repository for inventory data or sales data, and offered
very rudimentary insight like monthly sum comparisons. The Managerial position was blind to the
priorities and was reactive to any changes in sales, production, ordering that occured. 


## Task:
As the sole operational manager in this position, it was clear that this analytical shortfall needed to be
filled. The data needed to be used to augment decision making and guage performance. New data was needed to
 fill gaps, dirty data from multiple sources needed to be aggregated and cleaned, and this managerial 
 position had to integrate it into a holistic data set before it could assist the company in a managerial 
capacity. Key interests were to assess and forecast the status of products and product lines, calculate 
churn as a key metric of success of advertising and sales, and incorporate labor costs into a hand made 
production paradigm which spanned a wide range of products and procedural components. It was a task to be 
spearheaded at the initiative of and with sole responsibility by the Operations Manager.
  

## Action:
Data on the time and cost of production and production configurations was collected and orchestrated. It
was aggregated into a SQL database to analyze costs of products and product lines, and assess performance 
of staff and the structure of labor. 

Data was taken from the WooCommerce app linked to the website, augmented with separate data from square 
and manual entry of data that fell through the cracks. It was cleaned processed to create an aggregate of 
wholesale and online retail. This was accomplished with a combination of excel, SQL and Python depending
on use case.

Due to the fact that data would be used for an analytical purpose, as opposed to integration into an app,
Data was permitted to lie crude and unconnected where it could, in a compromise of time saving and 
reproducibility of analysis. Once the clean data was aggregated, queries and visualizations were 
implemented to breakdown the time scale of revenue for products and product lines. Unique identifiers were
 also leveraged to track historical brand loyalty as a key measure of success. 

Tracking historical purchases grouped by customers also allowed the creation of more finely tuned email 
lists. These could be altered easily with functional programming that could filter based on days since last 
purchase, product lines ordered and more. 
 


## Resolution:

Key insights were gained in the analysis of the information. Decisions around product development and 
release were made were made using the data. The information guided investments in infrastructure and 
refinement of production specifications. Insights into ordering quantities, and forecasts that allowed 
proactive production strategies were made possible. In a heuristic where quality of ingredients was always
 shifting it allowed time spent in QA to be minimized as data on sales trends and purchasing patterns 
 supported focused product and ingredient testing.

The data guided performance reviews for employees. It enabled for intensive and specific advertising
 campaigns. It guided the broad set of action the Operations Manager was responsible for in a environment 
 with ambigous problems.
